As has been mentioned, our scripture for today, the Apostle Paul talks about this inner struggle,
this inner war, really, that is going on inside every one of us.
It's the war between God's law and our mind and sin's law in our flesh.
And it's interesting the expression law in both cases is appropriate because a law
the purpose is to legislate action or conduct.
And of course, God's law in our mind is trying to legislate that we act according to Jehovah's thinking.
But of course, sin's law in our flesh is trying to dictate that we act according to Satan's thinking,
selfishly, fleshly.
And it is an intense war.
These two laws are warring, trying to overpower each other and dominate and control how we act.
And only if we fight hard will we win the war.
Now the Apostle Paul fought hard, didn't he?
It's true he lost some battles along the way, but he won the war, didn't he?
And he's now an immortal spirit creature in the heavens, so we want to imitate Paul.
And now what can help us win this war?
Well, let's develop an illustration they can help us, hopefully appreciate what can help us to win the war.
We want to illustrate with two opposing armies.
And if we think about it, that's what we have inside of us, don't we?
We have two opposing armies fighting each other in effect.
One is a good army, one is a very bad army.
Now what can we do to help the good army, God's law in our mind, to dominate over the other army?
Well, let's talk about two factors that are involved.
One food, second attitude.
Now taking first food, if one army is well fed and the other is starved,
now which one do you think is going to win? Well, the answer is obvious, isn't it?
Makes me think of the saying that an army marches on its stomach.
Well, how do we feed the good army?
Jesus said in Matthew 4, 4, man must live, not on bread alone,
but on every word that comes from Jehovah's mouth.
For Speeder 2, 2 talks about the milk of the word.
Hebrews 5, 14 talks about the solid food, deeper truths of God's word.
Matthew 24, 45, Jesus talks about feeding his disciples through the faithful slave.
So how do we feed the good army?
Well, we consistently, diligently consume the spiritual food,
and thereby keep the law of God in our mind well nourished, strong and healthy.
But now how do we starve the bad army?
Well, for one thing, we refuse to dwell on the immoral thinking
that Satan's world promotes.
We wouldn't even think of looking at pornography.
If we did that, I'd be like feeding a steak dinner to the bad army.
But even much more than that, if an immoral thought enters our mind, we push it out.
We pray to Jehovah, we get the Bible out, start reading it,
somehow we switch our mind onto something wholesome.
We do our best, as brought out to 2 Corinthians 10-5,
to bring every thought into captivity and make it obedient to the Christ.
We also refuse to feed our mind materialistic and other worldly thinking that Satan's world promotes.
And when we think about this matter of feeding the good army, starving the bad army,
it makes me think of the old Cherokee Indian legend.
You might have heard of this, according to one reference book,
a grandfather was talking to his grandson.
And he talked about how he had inside him two wolves fighting intensely each other.
One very good wolf, one a very bad wolf.
The grandson naturally wanted to know what which one's going to win.
Well, the grandfather explained the one I feed.
And it's really true of us.
But now let's get this second factor, attitude.
If one army has a positive determined attitude,
and the other has a hopeless demoralized attitude,
which one is likely to win?
Well, again, the answer is pretty clear.
Well, how do we maintain a positive determined attitude in the figurative good army
inside of us?
Open up to 2 Corinthians 4, please.
And here's a key factor.
No matter what trials test tribulations come our way, we don't give up.
We don't lose our hope, we keep our eyes on the prize.
Now, notice how it's expressed here.
2 Corinthians chapter 4, beginning in verse 16,
it says, therefore, we do not give up.
But even if the man we are outside is wasting away,
certainly the man we are inside is being renewed from day to day.
For though the tribulation is momentary and light,
it works out for us a glory that is of more and more surpassing greatness
and is everlasting.
While we keep our eyes not on the things seen,
but on the things unseen, for the things seen or temporary,
but the things unseen are everlasting.
And I really like that thought that any trial, no matter how intense it is,
is only momentary and it's only light, relatively speaking.
It's momentary when you think of the comparison of eternal blessings
in Jehovah's New World.
It's light compared to the weightiness, the greatness of the blessings
of Jehovah's New World.
Can you imagine being able to trade a moment of pain for an eternity of pleasure,
an ounce of misery for tons of happiness?
And if you think about it, we're able to make that exchange.
See, if we don't give up, no matter what trial comes our way.
But now, how do we infuse a hopeless demoralized attitude into the bad army?
Sands law in our flesh.
Well, for one thing, we always remember that if we were to give in to Sands law
and pursue a life of sin, and that's just a terrible thought to even think about,
but if we did that, it would be a loose, loose proposition, wouldn't it?
In fact, we would lose big time now, reaping the horrible consequences
physically, mentally, emotionally of Sands.
We would lose even bigger in the future, totally missing out on what Jehovah has in store
for those who love him.
So we remember that.
And we remember scriptures such as Psalm 37, 38.
All the transgressors will be destroyed.
The future of wicked people will be cut off, see.
We remember that Satan and his followers are headed for the Lake of Fire.
And we don't want to join them.
See, our destination is the New World. Is it not the Lake of Fire?
So we don't even slightly envy the wicked, unlike Asaph, at one point in his life,
he began to envy them.
We don't envy them.
We feel sorry for them, don't we?
We certainly infuse this hopeless attitude into the bad army that to pursue a course of sin
would be very foolish.
Well, there we have two factors involved, food and attitude.
Now, if we had time, we could discuss training, equipment.
But we're going to leave that for you.
Now, you can do that in your family worship, your personal study.
And I think you'll find it interesting.
If you pursue just like we did with food and attitude, equipment and training.
But the point is, as long as we have this inner struggle inside us,
it's really good.
It means we haven't lost.
See, we're still fighting.
And even though we lose a battle or two along the way, we'll win the war.
If we don't give up, we don't lose hope.
We don't surrender.
So don't ever put up the white flag.
Don't ever call it truce.
Continue to fight until that wonderful day.
That inner struggle will be gone.
It will be perfect.
And God's law in our mind will completely dominate.
And like Jehovah and Jesus, just naturally our natural inclination will be to do what is right.
But until then, let us fight with all our might.